---
layout: post
title:  "Fgru Project"
categories: jekyll update
img: Typical-flare-gas-recovery-system-8_W640.jpg
---
Flaring reduction has high priority as it meets both environmental and economic efficiency objectives. Flare Gas Recovery system (FGRs) reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air pollutant by recovering low pressure off gases that be flared. In the present study, the impact of FGRS include GHGs and Air pollutants emission for three different cases of flare gas system investigated. A feasibility study has been performed on implementing 3 FGRs, namley, A, B and C based on tree scenarios. Scenario 1 and 2 recommend the use of recovered gas as low and high pressure fuel gas respectively. In the scenario 3 the gas recovered is injected to the feedstock line. For all scenarios (9 FGRs), a simulation has been conducted and the electrical consumption are determined. Then the quantitative values of the flare gas recovery, GHG emissions and air pollutants reduction of each case are calculated. Moreover, cost estimation for each scenario carried out based on the economic data extracted from Clean Development Mechanism projects. The results showed that the FGRs A, B and C seems to be able to provide 29, 16.7 and 5.3 MMSm3 each year in scenario 1 respectively, while they are slightly lower for scenario 2 and 3. Implementation of FGRs for flare A, B and C in scenario 1 consumed 2252.2, 1291.8 and 415.9 MWh/y electrical energy and other scenarios consumption is higher. The net GHG emission and air pollutants reduction of FGRs A, B and C in scenario 1 is 66479, 38175, 12315 ton CO2/y and 197, 113, 36 ton/y respectively. The best result of emission reduction is related to scenario 1, and scenario 3 has lowest emission reduction. Installing FGRs A, B and C with scenario 1can save about 2.4, 1.3 and 0.4 milion dollars each year for operation and the IRR index is about %45, %35, %19 respectively. The net present values of investment and the internal rate of return suggest that the use of FGRs in scenario 1 is economically suitable. FGRs A, B in scenario 2 have IRR index %35 and %26 which these amount are higher than interest rate. FGRs C in scenario 2 has IRR lower %15. The payback time is less than 6 year in both scenario 1 and 2 and the IRR for them is more than intrest rate 15 percent. The third scenario possesses minus IRR index and this scenarion rejected. Economic analysis showed that FGRs A, B in scenario 1 and FGRs A in scenario 2 are economic in every state certainly and even in the worst state the minimum IRR is higher than discount rate (%15). Application of FGRs C has some risk. Thus, all FGRs in the scenarios 1 and FGRs A and B in scenario 2 are economical and the highest emission reduction is related to scenario 1, but all FGRs in scenario 3 are not economic surely and dismissed.

